Bump version to 0.0.15 (#2717)
astral-sh/ty: CHANGELOG.md

Author: Yes added. I (wrongly) assumed we omitted those.

- Preserve pure negation types in descriptor protocol to avoid false-positives in iteration ([#22907](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22907))
- Promote `Literal` types when inferring elements for very large unannotated tuples, for improved performance ([#22841](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22841))
- Recognize functions with stub bodies in `Protocol` classes as implicitly abstract ([#22838](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22838))
- Reduce false positives involving heterogeneous dicts by tracking dictionary literal keys as individual places ([#22882](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22882))
- Reduce false positives when subscripting classes generic over `TypeVarTuple`s ([#22950](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22950))
- Remove special handling for `Any()` in `match` class patterns ([#23011](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23011))
- Support `type[None]` in type expressions ([#22892](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22892))
- Support legacy namespace packages declared using `pkg_resources.declare_namespace` ([#22987](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22987))

> - Sync vendored typeshed stubs ([#23006](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23006))

Reviewer: It would be great if we could link to the typeshed diff here so users can see what changed since the last release — sometimes users can be blocked on upgrading to a new type checker version because of a typeshed bug, for example. There's examples in previous changelogs for how we generally link to typeshed diffs

# Changelog

## 0.0.15

Released on 2026-02-04.

### Bug fixes

- Add support for Debian/Ubuntu `dist-packages` directories ([#22466](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22466))
- Avoid false positive for `not-iterable` with no-positive intersection types ([#22089](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22089))
- Don't emit Liskov diagnostics for mangled names ([#23062](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23062))
- Enforce `Final` assignments after conditional bindings ([#22986](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22986))
- Fix TypedDict construction from existing TypedDict values ([#22904](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22904))
- Fix `Self` resolution for classes nested within methods ([#22964](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22964))
- Fix `__contains__` to respect descriptors ([#23056](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23056))
- Fix bidirectional inference with PEP 695 union type aliases ([#22988](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22988))

> - Fix bug in string annotations and clean up diagnostics ([#22913](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22913))

Reviewer: Can we say what the bug in string annotations was 😆

- Fix visibility of field specifiers when models are nested inside methods ([#23069](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23069))

### LSP server

- Fix hover showing `Unknown` for bare `Final` instance attributes ([#23003](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23003))
- Improve support for goto-type, goto-declaration, hover, and highlighting of string annotations ([#22878](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22878))
- Include setters and deleters when renaming properties ([#22999](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22999))
- Show type qualifiers like `Final` in on-hover hints ([#23005](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23005))

### Configuration

- Add new `unused-type-ignore-comment` rule ([#22790](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22790))
- Ignore/warn/select all rules (unless subsequently overridden) ([#22832](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22832))
- Support multiple workspace folders in a single ty LSP server instance ([#22953](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22953))
- Only add `./src` as a search path if `./src/__init__.py(i)` does not exist ([#22851](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22851))

### Type checking

> - Add a diagnostic for `Final` without assignment ([#23001](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23001))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a diagnostic detecting if a variable is declared as `Final` but never has any bindings ([#23001](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23001))
```

- Infer `ParamSpec` from class constructors for callable protocols ([#22853](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22853))
- Make `TrackedConstraintSet` interned ([#22545](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22545))
- Move the location of more `invalid-overload` diagnostics ([#22933](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22933))
- Point to an overload with an invalid `@final` decorator when emitting `invalid-overload` errors for invalid `@final` decorators ([#22893](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22893))
- Preserve pure negation types in descriptor protocol ([#22907](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22907))
- Promote `Literal` types when inferring elements for very large unannotated tuples ([#22841](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22841))
- Recognize functions with stub bodies in `Protocol` classes as implicitly abstract ([#22838](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22838))
- Reduce false positives when subscripting classes generic over `TypeVarTuple`s ([#22950](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22950))
- Remove `static_expression_truthiness` and improve reachability analysis ([#22971](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/22971))

> - Remove special handling for `Any()` in match class patterns ([#23011](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23011))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove special handling for `Any()` in `match` class patterns ([#23011](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/pull/23011))
```
